<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 123 (Monday, June 29, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 123 (Monday, June 29, 2026)]
[Rules and Regulations]
[Pages 39028-39031]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: C1-2026-11094]



[[Page 39028]]

=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services

42 CFR Parts 431, 435, 438, 457, and 600

[CMS-2454-IFC]
RIN 0938-AV98


Medicaid Program; Community Engagement Requirement for Certain 
Individuals

Correction

0
In rule document 2026-11094, beginning on page 33348 in the issue of 
Wednesday, June 3, 2026, make the following changes:
    Beginning on page 33476, Sec.  435.557 and Sec.  435.558 should 
read as follows:


Sec.  435.557   Verifying compliance with or exception or exclusion 
from the community engagement requirement.

    (a) Definitions. For purposes of this section--
    Period of enrollment means a continuous period of enrollment in 
coverage under the State plan or waiver without the individual being 
disenrolled, regardless of the number of consecutive eligibility 
periods, of redeterminations or renewals, or of transitions between 
eligibility groups.
    Reliable information available to the State means, for purposes of 
verifying compliance, deemed compliance or exclusion from the community 
engagement requirement in accordance with Sec. Sec.  435.550 through 
435.563, information necessary for determining eligibility to which the 
agency has access or should have access including, but not limited to:
    (i) Information from electronic data sources that the agency has 
determined to be effective consistent with paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this 
section, as documented in the agency's verification plan in accordance 
with paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section;
    (ii) Information from other State or local agencies;
    (iii) Information related to community engagement from Federal 
agencies and other data sources provided through the electronic service 
established by the Secretary, in accordance with Sec.  435.949;
    (iv) Information in the State's eligibility system;
    (v) Information in the individual's case record;
    (vi) Payroll data;
    (vii) Claim(s) relevant to the individual that have been 
adjudicated in the preceding 12 months, including those that have been 
paid, pended or denied; and
    (viii) Encounter data, as relevant to the individual, for the 
preceding 12 months.
    (b) Requirement to verify eligibility. The agency must establish 
processes to use reliable information available to the State to verify 
that an applicable individual has demonstrated community engagement in 
accordance with Sec. Sec.  435.552 and 435.556, or was deemed to have 
demonstrated community engagement under Sec.  435.553 or, if 
applicable, Sec.  435.555, or that an individual is a specified 
excluded individual under Sec.  435.554, before requesting additional 
information from the individual.
    (1) The agency--
    (i) Must identify data sources that provide reliable information 
relevant to verifying that that an applicable individual demonstrated 
or is deemed to have demonstrated community engagement or that an 
individual is a specified excluded individual.
    (ii) May determine that establishing a connection to or process to 
obtain information from a data source would not be effective, but the 
agency must consider such factors as the administrative costs 
associated with establishing and using the data match compared with the 
administrative costs associated with relying on documentation and the 
impact on program integrity in terms of the potential for ineligible 
individuals to be enrolled and for eligible individuals to be denied 
coverage.
    (iii) Must document in its verification plan under Sec.  435.945(j) 
its policies and procedures for verifying compliance with the community 
engagement requirement under this subpart, including an identification 
of the electronic data sources that the agency uses consistent with 
paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
    (iv) Must request and use information from the data sources 
identified and documented in its verification plan consistent with 
paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (iii) of this section.
    (2) Except with respect to verifying an individual is a specified 
excluded individual on the basis of being medically frail or otherwise 
having special medical needs as defined at Sec.  435.554(c)(5), subject 
to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, when there is no reliable 
information available to the State or the reliable information 
available to the State is not reasonably compatible with the 
information provided by or on behalf of the individual, the agency must 
seek additional information from the individual to verify the 
individual has demonstrated or is deemed to have demonstrated community 
engagement or that the individual is a specified excluded individual, 
in accordance with the following rules:
    (i) Before January 1, 2028, the agency may require documentation or 
accept other information as provided in Sec.  435.952(c) when there is 
no reliable information available to the State or the reliable 
information is not reasonably compatible with the information provided 
by or on behalf of the individual.
    (ii) Beginning on January 1, 2028, when there is no reliable 
information available to the State or the reliable information is not 
reasonably compatible with the information provided by or on behalf of 
the individual, the agency must require documentation whenever 
documentation is reasonably available.
    (iii) The agency must:
    (A) Accept information other than documentation to verify an 
individual's eligibility when there is no reasonably available 
documentation; and
    (B) May not deny or terminate eligibility solely because the 
individual is unable to produce documentation where none exists or is 
reasonably available but may establish criteria for requiring the 
individual to provide specific information considered sufficient to 
verify the individual's eligibility in the absence of reasonably 
available documentation.
    (3) The agency must comply with the requirements at Sec. Sec.  
435.558 and 435.952(d) and provide individuals with the opportunity to 
furnish information and documentation required to verify that the 
individual has demonstrated community engagement or is deemed to have 
demonstrated community engagement in accordance with Sec. Sec.  435.552 
and 435.556, or Sec.  435.553 or, if applicable, Sec.  435.555, or is a 
specified excluded individual as defined at Sec.  435.554, before 
terminating or denying eligibility based on reliable information 
available to the State.
    (4) The agency must accept information and documentation related to 
the community engagement requirement under this subpart from the 
individuals and via the modalities specified at Sec.  435.907(a).
    (c) Verification at application and renewal. The State must verify 
that an applicable individual has demonstrated or is deemed to have 
demonstrated community engagement for the period specified at Sec.  
435.556.
    (1) Requirement to check all reliable information available to the 
State. The State may not limit the reliable

[[Page 39029]]

information available to the State that is checked to specific 
activities or other means of demonstrating community engagement under 
Sec.  435.552, or to specific means of being deemed to have 
demonstrated community engagement under Sec.  435.553 or, if 
applicable, Sec.  435.555, or to specific specified excluded individual 
statuses under Sec.  435.554, but must continue to check reliable 
information available to the State until the agency verifies whether an 
individual who appears to be an applicable individual has demonstrated 
community engagement, is deemed to have demonstrated community 
engagement, or is not an applicable individual because they are a 
specified excluded individual.
    (i) The agency must attempt to verify the individual's specified 
excluded individual status or that the individual demonstrated 
community engagement or was deemed to have demonstrated community 
engagement using all reliable information available to the State for 
all relevant months before requesting additional information from the 
individual.
    (A) Only after checking all reliable information available to the 
State without successfully verifying compliance, deemed compliance, or 
specified excluded individual status may the agency request additional 
information from the individual and initiate the noncompliance 
procedures under Sec.  435.558, as appropriate.
    (B) An individual must not be required to provide documentation or 
other additional information unless information needed by the agency 
could not be verified using reliable information available to the 
State, including when there is no reliable information available to the 
State or the reliable information is not reasonably compatible with the 
information provided by or on behalf of the individual.
    (ii) The agency is not required to continue checking reliable 
information available to the State after the agency verifies 
compliance, deemed compliance, or status as a specified excluded 
individual, unless the agency has information indicating an individual 
whom the agency verified demonstrated or is deemed to have demonstrated 
community engagement may qualify as a specified excluded individual, as 
described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
    (2) Requirement to apply exclusions. The agency must determine that 
an individual is a specified excluded individual whenever the agency 
has sufficient information to determine the individual qualifies as 
such, regardless of whether the individual also demonstrates community 
engagement in accordance with Sec. Sec.  435.552 and 435.556 or meets 
the criteria for an exception under Sec.  435.553 or, if applicable, 
Sec.  435.555.
    (3) Requirement to enroll eligible individuals and verify potential 
exclusion post-enrollment. If the agency has sufficient information to 
verify an individual meets or is deemed to meet the community 
engagement requirement and has information that suggests, but needs 
more information to verify that the individual is a specified excluded 
individual, the agency must enroll the individual promptly using the 
verified information and attempt to verify eligibility for the 
exclusion post-enrollment or, if the individual is already enrolled, 
following the redetermination of eligibility.
    (d) State option to conduct more frequent verifications. States may 
verify that an applicable individual has met the requirement to 
demonstrate community engagement more frequently than each regularly 
scheduled redetermination, consistent with Sec.  435.556(a)(2)(ii).
    (1) States electing to verify that an applicable individual has met 
the requirement to demonstrate community engagement between regularly 
scheduled redeterminations must comply with the requirements of this 
subpart to verify, consistent with this section, that an applicable 
individual met the requirement to demonstrate community engagement in 
accordance with Sec. Sec.  435.552 and 435.556 or was deemed to have 
demonstrated community engagement under Sec.  435.553 or, if 
applicable, Sec.  435.555.
    (2) For beneficiaries who were determined to be applicable 
individuals at their last determination or redetermination of 
eligibility, the agency must check all reliable information available 
to the State to determine if the individual newly qualifies as a 
specified excluded individual prior to assessing compliance or deemed 
compliance with the community engagement requirement each time the 
state conducts a more frequent verification.
    (3) If the individual continues to be an applicable individual, the 
agency must attempt to verify that the individual demonstrated 
community engagement in accordance with Sec. Sec.  435.552 and 435.556, 
or was deemed to have demonstrated community engagement, under Sec.  
435.553 or, if applicable, Sec.  435.555, using all reliable 
information available to the State for all relevant months, before 
requesting additional information and documentation from the individual 
consistent with this section and initiating the noncompliance 
procedures under Sec.  435.558.
    (4) The agency may not reverify the specified excluded status of an 
individual between regularly scheduled redeterminations if the 
individual was determined to be a specified excluded individual at 
their last determination or redetermination of eligibility or during a 
more frequent verification of community engagement under this section 
unless the agency has information indicating the individual's specified 
excluded individual status has changed.
    (e) Requirement to use the electronic service established by the 
Secretary. The agency must obtain information regarding compliance with 
or exception or exclusion from the community engagement requirement 
through the electronic data service established by the Secretary to the 
extent the information is available through such service, consistent 
with Sec. Sec.  435.945 and 435.949, except as provided for in Sec.  
435.945(k) and paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
    (1) If information from a new data source becomes available through 
the electronic data service established by the Secretary that contains 
reliable information relevant to verifying the community engagement 
requirement in this subpart, the State must establish a connection 
though such service, or establish a direct connection to or implement 
an alternative data source or mechanism if approved for flexibility 
under Sec.  435.945(k), to obtain such information from that data 
source as soon as practicable, but no later than 12 months after 
information from the data source first becomes available through the 
service established by the Secretary.
    (2) For the purposes of verifying compliance or deemed compliance 
with, or exclusion from, the community engagement requirement, the 
Secretary may determine a waiver as described in Sec.  435.945(k) is 
not required for the State to establish a direct connection or use an 
alternative mechanism to access information available from a Federal 
data source that is accessible through the service established by the 
Secretary, if the Secretary determines that such direct connection or 
alternative mechanism is likely to satisfy the criteria in Sec.  
435.945(k). In the event the State does not access the Federal data 
source through the service established by the Secretary and the 
Secretary determines that a waiver as described in Sec.  435.945(k) is 
not necessary, the State must establish a direct connection or 
alternative mechanism within the

[[Page 39030]]

timeframe specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
    (f) Verification of medical frailty and privacy requirements for 
certain populations. (1) The agency must attempt to verify that an 
individual is a specified excluded individual on the basis that the 
individual is medically frail or otherwise has special medical needs as 
defined at Sec.  435.554(c)(5) using reliable information available to 
the State, including claim(s) relevant to the individual that have been 
adjudicated in the preceding 12 months, including those that have been 
paid, pended or denied, and encounter data, as relevant to the 
individual.
    (i) Before January 1, 2028, when there is no reliable information 
available to the State or the reliable information is not reasonably 
compatible with the information provided by or on behalf of the 
individual, the agency may require documentation or accept a statement 
or other information under penalty of perjury that provides sufficient 
information, as determined by the State, to verify an applicant or 
beneficiary is medically frail or otherwise has special medical needs, 
each time the State verifies an individual's medical frailty.
    (ii) Beginning on January 1, 2028, the agency may accept a 
statement or other information provided under penalty of perjury that 
provides sufficient information, as determined by the State, to verify 
qualification for the exclusion only once during the beneficiary's 
period of enrollment defined at paragraph (a) of this section when 
there is no reliable information available to the State or the reliable 
information available to the State is not reasonably compatible with 
the information provided by or on behalf of the individual.
    (A) At the individual's first regularly scheduled redetermination 
after such status was determined using the individual's statement 
provided under penalty of perjury or other information as described in 
this paragraph (f)(1)(ii), the agency must verify that the individual 
is medically frail or otherwise has special medical needs using 
reliable information available to the State, or, if reliable 
information available to the State is not sufficient for verification, 
using documentation submitted by or on behalf of the individual.
    (B) If an enrollee declares specified excluded individual status on 
the basis of being medically frail or otherwise having special medical 
needs after having sought such status on or after January 1, 2028, on 
the basis of a statement provided under penalty of perjury or other 
information described in this paragraph (f)(1)(ii) during the same 
period of enrollment defined at paragraph (a) of this section, the 
agency must verify that status using reliable information available to 
the State, or, if reliable information available to the State is not 
sufficient for verification, using documentation submitted by or on 
behalf of the individual.
    (iii) After verifying an individual's specified excluded individual 
status on the basis of being medically frail or otherwise having 
special medical needs using reliable information available to the State 
or documentation submitted by or on behalf of the individual, the 
agency must reverify this status at least every 12 months.
    (2) The agency must comply with all applicable Federal privacy 
requirements including section 1902(a)(7) of the Act; part 431, subpart 
F of this subchapter; the Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 1320d et seq.); part 2 of this 
title; and any other applicable Federal privacy laws when accessing, 
storing, and handling data obtained to verify that an individual is 
medically frail or otherwise has special medical needs or is 
participating in a drug addiction or alcoholic treatment and 
rehabilitation program.
    (g) Verification of mandatory and optional exceptions. (1) States 
must comply with the requirements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section 
when verifying qualification for a mandatory exception under Sec.  
435.553 except that if the individual provided information on an 
application, renewal or other State form, or when reporting a change in 
circumstances in accordance with paragraph (b)(4) of this section 
indicating they qualify for an exception and there is no reliable 
information available to the State, the State may elect the option 
under section 1902(xx)(3)(A) of the Act not to seek further information 
from the applicable individual.
    (2) States that elect to provide an optional exception for short-
term hardships under Sec.  435.555 must--
    (i) Attempt to use reliable information available to the State 
before seeking additional information from the individual to verify 
whether, for part or all of a month for which an applicable individual 
is required to demonstrate community engagement, the applicable 
individual received care specified at Sec.  435.555(d)(1) or the 
applicable individual or their dependent had to travel outside of their 
community of residence for an extended period of time to receive 
medical services specified at Sec.  435.555(d)(4).
    (ii) Apply an automatic short-term hardship exception to applicable 
individuals if, for part or all of a month for which such applicable 
individuals are required to demonstrate community engagement, the 
individuals reside in a county or equivalent unit of local government 
in which there exists an emergency or disaster as specified at Sec.  
435.555(d)(2) or for which the Secretary has approved an unemployment-
based short-term hardship exception as specified at Sec.  
435.555(d)(3), without requesting any additional information from such 
applicable individuals.


Sec.  435.558   Noncompliance procedures.

    (a) Provision of notice of noncompliance. If a State is unable to 
verify that an applicable individual has met the requirement to 
demonstrate community engagement under Sec. Sec.  435.552 and 435.556, 
or is deemed compliant under Sec.  435.553 or, if applicable, Sec.  
435.555, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the State must:
    (1) Provide such individual with the notice of noncompliance 
described in paragraph (c) of this section;
    (2) Provide such individual with a period of 30 calendar days 
beginning on the date on which such notice of noncompliance is received 
by the individual consistent with paragraph (c)(4) of this section, to 
make a satisfactory showing to the agency--
    (i) Of compliance with such requirement (including, as applicable, 
by showing that such individual demonstrated or should be deemed to 
have demonstrated community engagement under Sec.  435.553 or, if 
applicable, Sec.  435.555, for each month required under the State 
plan); or
    (ii) That such requirement does not apply to such individual on the 
basis that such individual does not meet the definition of applicable 
individual under Sec.  435.551, including by meeting the criteria for 
one or more of the categories of a specified excluded individual as 
defined at Sec.  435.554.
    (3) Continue to furnish Medicaid for an enrolled beneficiary until 
the individual is determined ineligible consistent with Sec.  
435.930(b).
    (b) Defining ``unable to verify'' community engagement. The agency 
is considered to be unable to verify that an applicable individual is 
compliant with the requirement to demonstrate community engagement as 
follows:
    (1) At application, the agency is unable to verify compliance with 
community engagement when it does not have sufficient information after 
reviewing the information provided by

[[Page 39031]]

the individual at application and the reliable information available to 
the State to determine that the individual has demonstrated or is 
deemed to have demonstrated community engagement for the number of 
months required under the State plan.
    (2) As part of a renewal under section 1902(e)(14)(L) of the Act 
and Sec.  435.916, the agency is unable to verify compliance with 
community engagement when it does not have sufficient information to 
determine that the individual has demonstrated or is deemed to have 
demonstrated community engagement for the number of months required 
under the State plan, after--
    (i) Reliable information available to the State accessed at renewal 
consistent with Sec.  435.916(a)(2) are not sufficient to verify 
compliance with the community engagement requirement; or
    (ii) The renewal form provided to the beneficiary in accordance 
with Sec.  435.916(a)(3) for those whose eligibility cannot be renewed 
based on reliable information under Sec.  435.916(a)(2) is not returned 
or the information returned on the renewal form is not sufficient to 
verify compliance with community engagement.
    (3) If applicable, as part of the more frequent verification of 
compliance under Sec.  435.557(d), the agency is unable to verify 
compliance with the community engagement requirement when it does not 
have sufficient information to determine that the individual has 
demonstrated or is deemed to have demonstrated community engagement for 
the number of months required under the State plan after--
    (i) Accessing reliable information in accordance with Sec.  
435.557(d) and information is not sufficient; or
    (ii) Accessing reliable information in accordance with Sec.  
435.557(d) and following the State's procedures under Sec.  435.952(d) 
to request information from the individual, when the requested 
information is not returned or the information returned is not 
sufficient.
    (c) Content and form of noncompliance notice. A notice of 
noncompliance--
    (1) Must include clear statements containing the following 
information--
    (i) How to make a satisfactory showing of compliance with the 
community engagement requirement, including:
    (A) Which month(s) will be assessed by the State in accordance with 
Sec.  435.556(a);
    (B) How to show the individual demonstrated community engagement 
under Sec.  435.552; and
    (C) How to show the individual should be deemed to have 
demonstrated community engagement as specified at Sec.  435.553 or, if 
applicable, Sec.  435.555;
    (ii) How to make a satisfactory showing that the community 
engagement requirement does not apply to the individual on the basis 
that the individual does not meet the definition of an applicable 
individual at Sec.  435.551, including because the individual meets the 
criteria for one or more of the categories of a specified excluded 
individual under Sec.  435.554;
    (iii) The deadline for providing the information under paragraph 
(c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section to the State;
    (iv) A description of how the information under paragraph (c)(1)(i) 
or (ii) of this section may be submitted to the State through any of 
the modalities described in Sec.  435.907(a);
    (v) A description of the consequences of noncompliance with the 
community engagement requirement and failure to respond to the notice 
of noncompliance for Medicaid eligibility and eligibility for advance 
payments of the premium tax credit (APTC) and the premium tax credit 
(PTC) used to pay for coverage through a Health Insurance Exchange;
    (vi) How such individual may reapply for medical assistance under 
the State plan (or a waiver of such plan) if the individual's 
application is denied or the individual is disenrolled from coverage 
under the State plan or waiver, as applicable; and
    (vii) For States that have elected to provide the short-term 
hardship exception under Sec.  435.555, the information about short-
term hardship events described in Sec.  435.555(c).
    (2) Must be provided in a manner consistent with Sec.  435.905(b).
    (3) Must, if provided in electronic format, comply with Sec.  
435.918(b).
    (4) Is considered to be received 5 days after the date on the 
notice, unless the applicant or beneficiary shows that he or she did 
not receive the notice within the 5-day period.
    (d) State responsibilities in the event of no satisfactory showing. 
If no satisfactory showing is made after the 30-calendar day period 
consistent with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the State must--
    (1) Consider all other bases of eligibility for medical assistance 
under the State plan (or waiver of such plan) in accordance with 
Sec. Sec.  435.911 and 435.916(f) prior to denying coverage at 
application or determining that an individual is ineligible;
    (2) For individuals determined ineligible under the State plan (or 
waiver of such plan) after considering all bases of eligibility, as 
applicable:
    (i) Deny such individual's application and provide written notice 
and fair hearing rights consistent with Sec. Sec.  435.917 and 435.918 
and part 431, subpart E of this subchapter;
    (ii) Disenroll such beneficiary not later than the end of the month 
following the month in which the 30-calendar day period under paragraph 
(a)(2) of this section ends and after the provision of advance written 
notice and fair hearing rights consistent with Sec. Sec.  435.917 
through 435.918 and part 431, subpart E of this subchapter prior to the 
disenrollment;
    (iii) Include in the clear statement of the specific reasons 
supporting the intended action under Sec.  431.210(b) of this 
subchapter that the individual failed to:
    (A) Make a satisfactory showing of compliance with the community 
engagement requirement under Sec.  435.552, including by meeting the 
criteria for an exception to be deemed as having demonstrated community 
engagement under Sec.  435.553 or, if applicable, Sec.  435.555, for 
the month(s) specified in accordance with Sec.  435.556(a); and
    (B) Make a satisfactory showing that the community engagement 
requirement does not apply to the individual on the basis that the 
individual does not meet the definition of applicable individual at 
Sec.  435.551, including failure to demonstrate the individual meets 
the criteria for one or more of the categories of a specified excluded 
individual under Sec.  435.554; and
    (iv) Determine the individual's or beneficiary's potential 
eligibility for other insurance affordability programs in accordance 
with Sec.  435.1200(e).
    (e) Prohibition on restrictions to re-applying for coverage. An 
agency must not impose any restriction on an applicable individual's 
ability to re-apply for coverage or their ability to receive coverage 
if determined eligible upon reapplication based on a prior denial of 
eligibility or disenrollment for noncompliance under this section.
    (f) Reconsideration period. A State must reconsider eligibility 
consistent with Sec.  435.916(a)(3)(iii), if an individual, who was 
enrolled with eligibility based on MAGI, was disenrolled for failure to 
submit information requested in a notice of noncompliance and submits 
the information during the reconsideration period described in Sec.  
435.916(a)(3)(iii).

[FR Doc. C1-2026-11094 Filed 6-26-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 0099-10-P


</pre></body>
</html>