--- Page 1 ---
Child Care Expenses Deduction
Claiming child care expenses
If you are the only person supporting the eligible child, claim
the child care expenses that you incurred while the eligible
child was living with you. Fill out parts A and B, and Part D if
it applies.
If you lived with one of the following individuals at any time in
2025 and at any time during the first 60 days of 2026, the
person with the lower net income (including zero income)
must complete this form:
• the eligible child's parent
• your spouse or common-law partner, if you are the father or
the mother of the eligible child
• an individual claiming an amount on line 30400, line 30425,
line 30450, or line 30500 of their return for the eligible child
If any of the situations in Part C or Part D apply, the child
care expenses can either be claimed by the person with the
higher net income, or in part by both the person with the
higher net income and the person with the lower net income.
The person with the higher net income must calculate the
claim first. However, both of you must fill out a separate
Form T778.
If you both have equal net incomes, you must agree on
who will claim the child care expenses.
If you got married or became a common-law partner in 2025,
you and your spouse or common-law partner have to
consider your net incomes for the whole year. Include child
care expenses you both paid for the whole year.

Expenses you can claim
You can claim child care expenses that were incurred for
services provided in 2025. These include payments made to
any of the following:
• caregivers providing child care services
• day nursery schools and daycare centres
• educational institutions, for the part of the fees that relate to
child care services
• day camps and day sports schools where the primary goal
of the camp is to care for children (an institution offering a
sports study program is not a sports school)
• boarding schools, overnight sports schools, or camps
where lodging is involved (see note (1) in Part A of
Form T778)
The list above is not a complete list of expenses you can
claim. For more information, see Income Tax Folio S1-F3-C1,
Child Care Expense Deduction.
Note: If you were a resident of Quebec, you can also claim
the basic contribution you paid directly to the subsidized
childcare service provider.

T778 E (25)

When the child care services are provided by an individual,
the individual cannot be any of the following:
• the eligible child's parent
• your spouse or common-law partner, if you are the father or
the mother of the eligible child
• a person for whom you or another person listed under
"Claiming child care expenses" claimed an amount on
line 30400, line 30425, line 30450, or line 30500 of your
return or their return
• a person under 18 years of age who is related to you
A person is related to you if they are connected to you by a
blood relationship, marriage or common-law partnership, or
adoption. For example, your brother, sister, brother-in-law,
sister-in-law, and your or your spouse's or common-law
partner's child are related to you. However, your niece,
nephew, aunt, and uncle are not.
Supporting documents: The individual or organization who
received the payments must give you a receipt showing
information about the services provided. When the child care
services are provided by an individual, you will need their
social insurance number. If you are filing online, keep all your
documents in case the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) asks
to see them later. If you are filing a paper return, attach your
completed Form T778, but do not send your other supporting
documents. Keep all your documents in case the CRA asks
to see them later.
Note: If you paid an individual to provide child care in your
home, you may have some responsibilities as an employer.
If Canada pension plan contributions and employment
insurance premiums have been paid for an individual to
provide child care in your home, the share that you have paid
is also considered a child care expense.

Expenses you cannot claim
You cannot claim payments for any of the following:
• medical or hospital care, clothing, or transportation costs
• fees relating to education costs at an educational
institution, such as tuition fees of a regular program or a
sports study program
• fees for leisure or recreational activities, such as tennis
lessons or the annual registration for Scouts
You cannot claim child care expenses that you or another
person were (or is entitled to be) reimbursed for or that you or
another person received (or is entitled to receive) financial
assistance for.
For example, this includes the hiring credit for small business
and small business job credit received under the Employment
Insurance Act. If your employer paid the child care expenses
on your behalf, you can claim the part of the expenses
included in your income for the year.

(Ce formulaire est disponible en français.)

Page 1 of 4

--- Page 2 ---
Other situations

Earned income

When completing the return for a person who died in 2025,
you can claim eligible child care expenses that were paid
while that person was living with the eligible child as if they
were the only person supporting the child.
If there was another person living with the child, that person
may also be considered the only person supporting the child
and can claim eligible child care expenses paid while living
with the child, as long as the expenses were not claimed on
the return of another person.

Your earned income of line 6 is the total of the following:

If you lived outside Canada for all or part of 2025 and the
CRA considers you to be a factual resident or deemed
resident of Canada, you can claim child care expenses that
you paid to a
non-resident person for services provided outside Canada.
For more information on these residency status, go
to canada.ca/cra-determining-residency-status.

• the taxable portion of scholarships, bursaries, fellowships
and similar awards, and net research grants

For information on other situations where you can claim child
care expenses paid for services provided outside Canada (for
example, commuters to the United States), contact the CRA.
If you immigrated to or emigrated from Canada in 2025, you
can claim child care expenses for the period that you were in
Canada as long as you qualify.

Definitions
Child care expenses
Child care expenses are amounts you or another person
paid to have someone look after an eligible child so that you
or the other person could:
• earn income from employment
• carry on a business alone or as an active partner
• attend school under the conditions of an educational
program
• carry on research or similar work for which you or the other
person received a grant
The child must have lived with you or the other person when
the expense was incurred for the expense to qualify. Usually,
you can only deduct payments for services provided in
Canada by a Canadian resident. Read "Other situations"
above for exceptions.

Eligible child
Child care expenses can only be claimed for an eligible child.
An eligible child is:
• your or your spouse's or common-law partner's child
• a child who was dependent on you or your spouse or
common-law partner, and whose net income in 2025 was
$16,129 or less
The child must have been under 16 years of age at some
time in the year. However, the age limit does not apply if the
child had a mental or physical infirmity and was dependent on
you or your spouse or common-law partner.

Net income
Your net income and the other person's net income are used
to determine who can claim the child care expenses. This is
the amount from line 23600 of each of your returns not
including amounts for child care expenses (line 21400) or
social benefits repayment (line 23500).

T778 E (25)

• employment income (including tips and gratuities, and the
non-taxable part of an allowance received as an
emergency volunteer)
• other amounts included in computing employment income
such as employment benefits and employee security
options benefits
• net self-employment income, either alone or as an active
partner (do not include losses)

• any earnings supplement received under a project
sponsored by the Government of Canada to encourage
employment or sponsored under Part II of the Employment
Insurance Act or any similar program
• disability benefits received from the Canada Pension Plan
or the Quebec Pension Plan
• amounts received under the Apprenticeship Incentive Grant
program and the Apprenticeship Completion Grant
program, administered by Employment and Social
Development Canada
• any federal, provincial, or territorial government COVID-19
payments received in the year for which you have received
a T4A or T4E
• amounts that may be declared to be exempt from income
due to other statutes or enactment of Parliament or
because they are payments for emergency services
volunteers
For more information on what is considered earned income,
see Income Tax Folio S1-F3-C1, Child Care Expense
Deduction.

Educational program
An educational program must be offered by a secondary
school, college, university, or other designated educational
institution. This includes any institution certified by the
Minister of Employment and Social Development Canada for
courses that develop or improve occupational skills. An
eligible program must last at least three consecutive weeks.
A full-time educational program requires students to spend
at least 10 hours a week on courses or work in the program.
A part-time educational program requires students to spend
at least 12 hours in a calendar month on courses in the
program.

If you need help
For help with common topics, current contact centre wait
times, and links to online self-serve options, go to
canada.ca/cra-contact.

Teletypewriter (TTY) and Video Relay Service
(VRS) users
If you use a TTY for a hearing or speech impairment,
call 1-800-665-0354.
Register with Canada VRS to download the app, by going to
srvcanadavrs.ca/en/get-the-app, and call the VRS line.
If you use another operator-assisted relay service, call the
CRA's regular telephone numbers instead of the TTY or
Canada VRS numbers.
Page 2 of 4

--- Page 3 ---
Child Care Expenses Deduction

Protected B
when completed

Part A – Total child care expenses
First name, last name and date of birth for each eligible child, even if you did not pay child care expenses for each of them.
First name

First name of
each eligible child
whom payments
were made for

Date of birth
Year
Month Day

Last name

Child care
expenses
paid (1)

Name of the child care organization or
name and social insurance number of the individual
who received the payments

Number of weeks for
boarding schools or
overnight camps

+
+
+
+
Total 67950 =
(1) The maximum amount you can claim for expenses that relate to boarding school stays (other than education costs) and

overnight camps (including an overnight sports school) is any of the following amounts:
• $200 per week for a child included on line 1
• $275 per week for a child included on line 2
• $125 per week for a child included on line 3
Enter the amount of expenses included above that were incurred in 2025 for a child who was 6
years of age or younger at the end of 2025 and living with you when the expenses were incurred.

67954

Part B – Basic limit for child care expenses
Number of eligible children born in 2019 or later whom the disability
amount cannot be claimed for
Number of eligible children born in 2025 or earlier whom the disability
amount can be claimed for (2)
Number of eligible children born in 2009 to 2018 (and born in 2008 or
earlier with a mental or physical infirmity whom the disability amount
cannot be claimed for)
Add lines 1 to 3.
Enter the amount from line 67950.
Enter your earned income.
Enter whichever amount is the least: line 4, line 5 or line 6.

× $8,000

1

× $11,000 = 67960 +

2

× $5,000 =

3

+
=

4
5

×

=

2/3

6
7

If you are the person with the higher net income, continue at Part C. Leave lines 8 and 9 blank.
Enter the amount that the other person with the higher net income entered on line 21400 of
their 2025 return.

–

8

Line 7 minus line 8.
If you attended school in 2025 and are the only person making a claim,
continue at Part D. If not, enter this amount on line 21400 of your return.

=

9

Allowable deduction

(2) Attach Form T2201, Disability Tax Credit Certificate. If it has already been filed for the child, attach a note to your

paper return showing the name and social insurance number of the person who filed Form T2201 and the tax year it
was filed for.

T778 E (25)

(Ce formulaire est disponible en français.)

Page 3 of 4

--- Page 4 ---
Protected B when completed

Part C – You are the person with the higher net income
Fill out this part and tick the boxes that applied if, in 2025, the other person with lower net income was in any of the situations
below.
a) The other person attended school and was enrolled in a part-time educational program.
b) The other person attended school and was enrolled in a full-time educational program.
c) The other person was not capable of caring for children because of a mental or physical infirmity.
(That person must have been confined for a period of at least two weeks to a bed or wheelchair, or as a patient in a
hospital or other similar institution. Attach a statement from a medical doctor or a nurse practitioner certifying this
information.)
d) The other person was not capable of caring for children because of a mental or physical infirmity and this situation is
likely to continue for an indefinite period. (Attach a statement from a medical doctor or a nurse practitioner certifying this
information.)
e) The other person was confined to a prison or similar institution for a period of at least two weeks.
f) You and your spouse or common-law partner were, due to a breakdown in your relationship, living separate and apart at
the end of 2025 and for a period of at least 90 days beginning in 2025, but you reconciled within the first 60 days of 2026.
Name of person with lower net income

Social insurance number

Enter the amount from line 4.
Multiply the amount on line 10 by the number of weeks in 2025 that b) to f) applied.

Net income

× 2.5% =

11

Multiply the amount on line 10 by the number of months in 2025 that a) applied
(except for any month that includes a week used to calculate the amount on line 11).
Line 11 plus line 12
Enter whichever is less: amount from line 7 or line 13.
If you attended school in 2025, continue at Part D.
If not, enter this amount on line 21400 of your return.

10

+
67980 =

12
13

Allowable deduction

14

Part D – You were enrolled in an educational program in 2025
Fill out this part if, at any time in 2025, you were either:
• the only person supporting the eligible child, line 7 equals line 6, and you were enrolled in an educational program
• the person with the higher net income, line 7 equals line 6, and, at the same time in 2025, you and the other person

were enrolled in an educational program. (Fill out Part C.)
Note: Part D does not apply to the person with the lower net income because the other person will claim this part of the
deduction for both of you.
Enter the amount from line 4.
× 2.5% =
Multiply the amount on line 15 by the number of weeks in 2025 that you were enrolled in a
full-time educational program. (If there was another person, they must also have been enrolled in
a full-time educational program during the same weeks.)
Multiply the amount on line 15 by the number of months in 2025 (except for any month that
includes a week used to calculate the amount on line 16) where either:
• You were enrolled in a part-time educational program and there was no other person
• You and the other person were enrolled in a full-time or part-time educational program during
the same months
+
Line 16 plus line 17
67990 =
Line 4 minus whichever applies: line 9 or line 14
Line 5 minus whichever applies: line 9 or line 14
Enter your net income
(not including lines 21400 and 23500 of your return).
× 2/3 =
If you filled out Part C: line 13 minus line 6
Enter whichever is less: line 18, line 19, line 20, line 21 or line 22 if it applies.
Enter whichever amount applies: line 9 or line 14.
Line 23 plus line 24
Enter this amount on line 21400 of your return.

Allowable deduction

15

16

17
18
19
20
21
22
23

+

24

=

25

See the privacy notice on your return.
T778 E (25)

Page 4 of 4
