--- Page 1 ---
Protected B when completed

2026 Personal Tax Credits Return

TD1

Read page 2 before filling out this form. Your employer or payer will use this form to determine the amount of your tax deductions.
Fill out this form based on the best estimate of your circumstances.
If you do not fill out this form, your tax deductions will only include the basic personal amount, estimated by your employer or payer based on the income they
pay you.
Last name
Address

First name and initial(s)
Postal code

Date of birth (YYYY/MM/DD)

Employee number

For non-residents only
Country of permanent residence

Social insurance number

1. Basic personal amount – Every resident of Canada can enter a basic personal amount of $16,452. However, if your net income
from all sources will be greater than $181,440 and you enter $16,452, you may have an amount owing on your income tax and benefit
return at the end of the tax year. If your income from all sources will be greater than $181,440 you have the option to calculate a
partial claim. To do so, fill in the appropriate section of Form TD1-WS, Worksheet for the 2026 Personal Tax Credits Return, and enter
the calculated amount here.
2. Canada caregiver amount for infirm children under age 18 – Only one parent may claim $2,740 for each infirm child born in
2009 or later who lives with both parents throughout the year. If the child does not live with both parents throughout the year, the
parent who has the right to claim the "Amount for an eligible dependant" on line 8 may also claim the Canada caregiver amount for
the child.
3. Age amount – If you will be 65 or older on December 31, 2026, and your net income for the year from all sources will be $46,432
or less, enter $9,208. You may enter a partial amount if your net income for the year will be between $46,432 and $107,819. To
calculate a partial amount, fill out the line 3 section of Form TD1-WS.
4. Pension income amount – If you will receive regular pension payments from a pension plan or fund (not including Canada
Pension Plan, Quebec Pension Plan, old age security, or guaranteed income supplement payments), enter whichever is less:
$2,000 or your estimated annual pension income.
5. Tuition (full-time and part-time) – Fill in this section if you are a student at a university or college, or an educational institution
certified by Employment and Social Development Canada, and you will pay more than $100 per institution in tuition fees. Enter the
total tuition fees that you will pay if you are a full-time or part-time student.
6. Disability amount – If you will claim the disability amount on your income tax and benefit return by using Form T2201,
Disability Tax Credit Certificate, enter $10,341.
7. Spouse or common-law partner amount – Enter the difference between the amount on line 1 (line 1 plus $2,740 if your spouse
or common-law partner is infirm) and your spouse's or common-law partner's estimated net income for the year if two of the
following conditions apply:
• You are supporting your spouse or common-law partner who lives with you
• Your spouse or common-law partner's net income for the year will be less than the amount on line 1 (line 1 plus $2,740 if your
spouse or common-law partner is infirm)
In all cases, go to line 9 if your spouse or common-law partner is infirm and has a net income for the year of $29,374 or less.
8. Amount for an eligible dependant – Enter the difference between the amount on line 1 (line 1 plus $2,740 if your eligible
dependant is infirm) and your eligible dependant's estimated net income for the year if all of the following conditions apply:
• You do not have a spouse or common-law partner, or you have a spouse or common-law partner who does not live with you and
who you are not supporting or being supported by
• You are supporting the dependant who is related to you and lives with you
• The dependant's net income for the year will be less than the amount on line 1 (line 1 plus $2,740 if your dependant is infirm and
you cannot claim the Canada caregiver amount for infirm children under 18 years of age for this dependant)
In all cases, go to line 9 if your dependant is 18 years or older, infirm, and has a net income for the year of $29,374 or less.
9. Canada caregiver amount for eligible dependant or spouse or common-law partner – Fill out this section if, at any time in the
year, you support an infirm eligible dependant (aged 18 or older) or an infirm spouse or common-law partner whose net income for
the year will be $29,374 or less. To calculate the amount you may enter here, fill out the line 9 section of Form TD1-WS.
10. Canada caregiver amount for dependant(s) age 18 or older – If, at any time in the year, you support an infirm dependant age
18 or older (other than the spouse or common-law partner or eligible dependant you claimed an amount for on line 9 or could have
claimed an amount for if their net income were under $19,192) whose net income for the year will be $20,601 or less, enter $8,773.
You may enter a partial amount if their net income for the year will be between $20,601 and $29,374. To calculate a partial amount,
fill out the line 10 section of Form TD1-WS. This worksheet may also be used to calculate your part of the amount if you are sharing
it with another caregiver who supports the same dependant. You may claim this amount for more than one infirm dependant age 18
or older.
11. Amounts transferred from your spouse or common-law partner – If your spouse or common-law partner will not use all of
their age amount, pension income amount, tuition amount, or disability amount on their income tax and benefit return, enter the
unused amount.
12. Amounts transferred from a dependant – If your dependant will not use all of their disability amount on their income tax and
benefit return, enter the unused amount. If your or your spouse's or common-law partner's dependent child or grandchild will not use
all of their tuition amount on their income tax and benefit return, enter the unused amount.
13. TOTAL CLAIM AMOUNT – Add lines 1 to 12.
Your employer or payer will use this amount to determine the amount of your tax deductions.

TD1 E (26)

(Ce formulaire est disponible en français.)

Page 1 of 2

--- Page 2 ---
Protected B when completed
Filling out Form TD1
Fill out this form only if any of the following apply:

• you have a new employer or payer, and you will receive salary, wages, commissions, pensions, employment insurance benefits,
or any other remuneration

• you want to change the amounts you previously claimed (for example, the number of your eligible dependants has changed)
• you want to claim the deduction for living in a prescribed zone
• you want to increase the amount of tax deducted at source
Sign and date it, and give it to your employer or payer.

More than one employer or payer at the same time
If you have more than one employer or payer at the same time and you have already claimed personal tax credit amounts on another Form TD1 for 2026,
you cannot claim them again. If your total income from all sources will be more than the personal tax credits you claimed on another Form TD1, check
this box, enter "0" on Line 13 and do not fill in Lines 2 to 12.

Total income is less than the total claim amount
Tick this box if your total income for the year from all employers and payers will be less than your total claim amount on line 13. Your employer or payer
will not deduct tax from your earnings.

For non-resident only (Tick the box that applies to you.)
As a non-resident, will 90% or more of your world income be included in determining your taxable income earned in Canada in 2026?
Yes (Fill out the previous page.)
No (Enter "0" on line 13, and do not fill in lines 2 to 12 as you are not entitled to the personal tax credits.)
Call the international tax and non-resident enquiries line at 1-800-959-8281 if you are unsure of your residency status.

Provincial or territorial personal tax credits return
You also have to fill out a provincial or territorial TD1 form if your claim amount on line 13 is more than $16,452. Use the Form TD1 for your province or
territory of employment if you are an employee. Use the Form TD1 for your province or territory of residence if you are a pensioner. Your employer or payer
will use both this federal form and your most recent provincial or territorial Form TD1 to determine the amount of your tax deductions.
Your employer or payer will deduct provincial or territorial taxes after allowing the provincial or territorial basic personal amount if you are claiming the basic
personal amount only.
Note: You may be able to claim the child amount on Form TD1SK, 2026 Saskatchewan Personal Tax Credits Return if you are a Saskatchewan resident
supporting children under 18 at any time during 2026. Therefore, you may want to fill out Form TD1SK even if you are only claiming the basic personal
amount on this form.

Deduction for living in a prescribed zone
You may claim any of the following amounts if you live in the Northwest Territories, Nunavut, Yukon, or another prescribed northern zone for more than six
months in a row beginning or ending in 2026:
• $11.00 for each day that you live in the prescribed northern zone
• $22.00 for each day that you live in the prescribed northern zone if, during that time, you live in a dwelling
that you maintain, and you are the only person living in that dwelling who is claiming this deduction
$
Employees living in a prescribed intermediate zone may claim 50% of the total of the above amounts.
For more information, go to canada.ca/taxes-northern-residents.

Additional tax to be deducted
You may want to have more tax deducted from each payment if you receive other income such as non-employment income from
CPP or QPP benefits, or old age security pension. You may have less tax to pay when you file your income tax and benefit return
by doing this. Enter the additional tax amount you want deducted from each payment to choose this option. You may fill out a new
Form TD1 to change this deduction later.

$

Reduction in tax deductions
You may ask to have less tax deducted at source if you are eligible for deductions or non-refundable tax credits that are not listed on this form (for example,
periodic contributions to a registered retirement savings plan (RRSP), child care or employment expenses, charitable donations, and tuition and education
amounts carried forward from the previous year). To make this request, fill out Form T1213, Request to Reduce Tax Deductions at Source, to get a letter of
authority from your tax services office. Give the letter of authority to your employer or payer. You do not need a letter of authority if your employer deducts
RRSP contributions from your salary.

Forms and publications
To get our forms and publications, go to canada.ca/cra-forms-publications or call 1-800-959-5525.
Personal information (including the SIN) is collected and used to administer or enforce the Income Tax Act and related programs and activities including
administering tax, benefits, audit, compliance, and collection. The information collected may be disclosed to other federal, provincial, territorial, aboriginal or
foreign government institutions to the extent authorized by law. Failure to provide this information may result in paying interest or penalties, or in other actions.
Under the Privacy Act, individuals have a right of protection, access to and correction of their personal information, and to file a complaint with the Privacy
Commissioner of Canada regarding the handling of their personal information. Refer to Personal Information Bank CRA PPU 120 on Info Source at
canada.ca/cra-info-source.

Certification
I certify that the information given on this form is correct and complete.
Date

Signature
It is a serious offence to make a false return.

TD1 E (26)

Page 2 of 2
