--- Page 1 ---
Moving Expenses Deduction
Claiming moving expenses
You can claim eligible moving expenses if one of the
following applies:
• You moved to a new home to work or to run a business out
of a new location
• You moved to be a student in full-time attendance in a
post-secondary program at a university, college or other
educational institution
Complete Part 2 of Form T1-M, Moving Expenses Deduction,
to determine if you meet the distance requirement to claim
your moving expenses. To qualify, your new home must be
at least 40 kilometres closer (by the shortest public route) to
your new work location or school.
You must complete a separate Form T1-M for each eligible
move. Enter the total from line 29 in Part 4 of each form on
line 21900 of your Income Tax and Benefit Return.

Employed or self-employed
If you are employed or self-employed, you can deduct eligible
moving expenses from the employment or self-employment
income you earned at your new work location, including
amounts you received under the Wage Earner Protection
Program for your employment at the new work location.
You cannot deduct moving expenses from any other type of
income, such as investment income or employment insurance
benefits, even if you received this income at the new location.

Full-time student
You can claim eligible moving expenses if you moved to be a
student in full-time attendance in a post-secondary program at
a university, college or other educational institution. However,
you can only deduct these expenses from the parts of your
scholarships, fellowships, bursaries, certain prizes or research
grants that are required to be included in your income.
You can also claim moving expenses if you moved to work,
including summer employment, or to run a business.
However, you can only deduct these expenses from the
employment or self-employment income you earned at the
new work location.
You can claim moving expenses you incur at the beginning of
each academic period as long as you meet the 40-kilometre
requirement outlined in Part 2 of Form T1-M and you earned
income at your new work location.

Calculating your allowable moving expenses
(Part 4)
You can claim most amounts that you paid for moving
yourself, your family, and your household items. Not all
household members have to travel together or at the same
time.

Transportation and storage costs (line 4)
You can claim transportation and storage costs (such as
packing, hauling, movers, in-transit storage and insurance) for
household items, including boats and trailers.

Travel expenses (lines 5 to 7)
You can claim travel expenses, including vehicle expenses,
meals, and accommodation, to move you and your household
members to your new home. You can choose to claim vehicle
and meal expenses using one of the following two calculation
methods.
Calculation methods
There are two methods (detailed and simplified) to calculate
the meal and vehicle amounts you spent.
If you choose to use the detailed method to calculate your
meal expenses, you must keep all of your receipts and claim
the actual amount that you spent. If you choose to use this
method to calculate your vehicle expenses, you must keep all
receipts and records for the vehicle expenses. Claim the
actual amount that you spent for your moving expenses
during the tax year.
If you choose to use the simplified method to calculate your
meal expenses, you may claim a flat rate per person.
Although you do not have to keep detailed receipts for actual
expenses, the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) may still ask
you to send documents to support your claim.
If you choose to use this method to calculate the amount to
claim for vehicle expenses, multiply the number of kilometres
by the cents/km rate for the province or territory where the
travel began. The CRA may still ask you to send documents
to support your claim. You must keep track of the number of
kilometres driven during the tax year for the trips related to
your moving expenses. To find out the rates for the simplified
method, go to canada.ca/taxes-travel-costs.

For co-operative students moving back after a summer break
or a work semester, you can also claim your moving expenses
as long as you meet the requirements mentioned above.
For more information, see Guide P105, Students and
Income Tax.

T1-M E (25)

(Ce formulaire est disponible en français.)

Page 1 of 6

--- Page 2 ---
Temporary living expenses (line 9 and line 10)
You can claim costs for a maximum of 15 days for meals and
temporary lodging near the old or new home for you and your
household members. If you choose to use the simplified
method, the CRA may still ask you to send documents
showing how long you stayed at the temporary lodging.

Cost of cancelling your lease (line 12)
You can claim the cost of cancelling the lease for your old
home. However, you cannot claim any rental payments
before the cancellation of your lease.

Reimbursement or allowance you received for
your move (line 25)
If you received a reimbursement or an allowance from your
employer for your eligible moving expenses, you can only
claim your moving expenses if you include the amount you
received in your income or if you reduce your moving
expenses by the amount received.
The CRA may ask you to send a letter from your employer
saying that you were not reimbursed for the moving expenses
you are claiming.

Incidental costs related to your move (line 13)

Expenses you paid in a year after you moved

You can claim any of the following costs:
• changing your address on legal documents
• replacing driving licences and non-commercial vehicle
permits (not including insurance)

If your moving expenses were paid in a year after the year of
your move, you can claim the expenses against your
employment or self-employment income earned at the new
work location on your return for the year that you paid them.
This also applies to students reporting a taxable amount of
scholarships, fellowships, bursaries, certain prizes or research
grants.

• utility hook-ups and disconnections

Cost to maintain the old home when vacant (line 14)
You can claim up to $5,000 for interest, property taxes,
insurance premiums, and the cost of heating and utilities
expenses that you paid to maintain your old home when it was
vacant after you moved, and during a period when reasonable
efforts were made to sell the home.
You cannot claim these costs during a period when the old
home was rented. The costs must have been incurred when
your old home was not occupied by you or any other person
who lived with you at the old home just before the move.

Cost of selling the old home (lines 16 to 19)
You can claim the cost of selling your old home, including
advertising, notary or legal fees, real estate commission,
and mortgage penalty when the mortgage is paid off before
maturity.

Cost of buying the new home (line 21 and line 22)
If you or your spouse or common-law partner sold your old
home because of your move, you can claim the legal or notary
fees you paid to buy your new home, as well as any taxes
paid (other than GST/HST) for the transfer or registration of
title to the new home.

This may happen if your old home did not sell until after the
year of your move. If this is the case, the CRA may ask you to
send this form with the receipts and explain the delay in
selling your home. However, you cannot carry back moving
expenses to a prior year. For example, if you paid moving
expenses in the current year for a move that occurred in a
prior year, you cannot claim the expenses paid in the current
year on your prior year return. This is the case even if you
earned employment income, self-employment income, or
received a taxable amount of scholarships, fellowships,
bursaries, certain prizes or research grants at the new
location in the prior year.

Your net eligible income (line 28)
If you are an employee, your net eligible income is calculated
by taking the amounts reported on your T4 or T4A slips
(relating to the new work location) included on lines 10100 or
10400 minus any amounts relating to the new work location
claimed on lines 20700, 21200, 22215, 22900, 23100, and
23200 of your return.
If you are self-employed, your net eligible income is usually
calculated by taking the net amounts earned at the new work
location that are included on lines 13500, 13700, 13900,
14100, and 14300, minus any related amounts claimed on
lines 21200 and 22200 of your return.
If you are a student, your net eligible income is calculated by
taking the amounts of scholarships, fellowships, bursaries,
certain prizes and research grant required to be included in
your income for the year.

T1-M E (25)

Page 2 of 6

--- Page 3 ---
Unused moving expenses available to carry forward
to a future year (line 30)

If you moved to Canada, from Canada, or
between two locations outside Canada

If you are employed or self-employed and your net moving
expenses (line 26) paid in the year of the move are more
than your net eligible income (line 28) earned at the new work
location in that same year, you can carry forward and deduct
the unused part of those expenses from the employment or
self-employment income you earn at the new work location
and report on your return in a future year.
If you are a full-time student and your net moving expenses
(line 26) paid in the year of the move are more than the
scholarships, fellowships, bursaries, certain prizes and
research grants required to be included in your income for the
year (line 28), you can carry forward and deduct the unused
part of those expenses from the same type of income you
receive and report on your return in a future year.

If you moved to or from Canada
If you meet all of the conditions and requirements for claiming
moving expenses from page 1, you can claim eligible expenses
for a move to or from Canada if both of the following apply:

Ineligible moving expenses

• You are a full-time student (including co-operative student),
or a factual or deemed resident of Canada
• You moved from the place where you normally lived to live
in another place where you normally lived
You cannot claim moving expenses if you rent an apartment
in another country where you are working temporarily and you
maintain residential ties in Canada (for example, your spouse
and children remain in your home in Canada) because your
home in Canada is where the CRA considers you to normally
lived.

You cannot claim any of the following expenses:

If you moved between two locations outside Canada

• expenses for work done to make your old home more saleable

If you meet all of the conditions and requirements for claiming
moving expenses from page 1, you can claim eligible
expenses for a move between two locations outside Canada
if you are a factual or deemed resident of Canada.

• any loss from the sale of your home
• travel expenses for house-hunting trips before you move
• travel expenses for job hunting in another city
• the value of items movers refused to take, such as plants,
frozen food, ammunition, paint, and cleaning products
• expenses to clean or repair a rented home to meet the
landlord's standards

For more information, see Income Tax Folio S5-F1-C1,
Determining an Individual's Residence Status, or section
"Deemed residents of Canada" in the Income Tax and Benefit
Guide for Non-Residents and Deemed Residents of Canada.

If you need help

• expenses to replace personal-use items such as tool sheds,
firewood, drapes, and carpets

For more information, see Income Tax Folio S1-F3-C4,
Moving Expenses, go to canada.ca/taxes.

• mail-forwarding costs (such as with Canada Post)
• costs of transformers or adaptors for household appliances
• costs incurred in the sale of your old home if you delayed
selling for investment purposes or until the real estate
market improved
• mortgage default insurance

Teletypewriter (TTY) and Video Relay Service (VRS)
users

Generally, you cannot deduct the cost of moving a mobile
home. However, if you have personal items in a mobile home
when it is moved, you can deduct the cost of moving the
home as long as it is not more than the estimated cost of
moving those personal items separately.

If you use another operator-assisted relay service, call the
CRA's regular telephone numbers instead of the TTY or
Canada VRS numbers.

T1-M E (25)

If you use a TTY for a hearing or speech impairment,
call 1-800-665-0354.
Register with Canada VRS to download the app, by going to
srvcanadavrs.ca/en/get-the-app, and call the VRS line.

Page 3 of 6

--- Page 4 ---
Protected B
when completed

Moving Expenses Deduction

Before you complete this form, read the information on pages 1 to 3.
Complete a separate form for each move to calculate your eligible moving expenses deduction.
Ż

Tax year

Part 1 – Taxpayer information
First name

Last name

Social insurance number

Part 2 – Calculation of distance in kilometres
Distance in kilometres between your old home and your new work location or educational institution
Distance in kilometres between your new home and your new work location or educational institution
Line 1 minus line 2

–
=

1
2
3

If the amount on line 3 is less than 40 kilometres, you cannot deduct your moving expenses.
If this is the case, do not complete the rest of this form.

Part 3 – Details of the move
Year

Month Day

Date you started to work, run a business or
study full time at a new location:

Year

Month Day

Main reason for the move:

To work or to run a business or

Date of move:

To study full time

Address of your old home
Apt No. – Street No., Street name
City

Province or territory

Postal or ZIP code

Province or territory

Postal or ZIP code

Country (if outside Canada)

Address of your new home
Apt No. – Street No., Street name
City
Country (if outside Canada)

Information about your employer, business, or educational institution after the move
Name
Apt No. – Street No., Street name
City

Province or territory

Postal or ZIP code

Country (if outside Canada)

T1-M E (25)

(Ce formulaire est disponible en français.)

Page 4 of 6

--- Page 5 ---
Protected B when completed

Part 4 – Allowable moving expenses
Transportation and storage costs for household items
Name of mover (if it applies):

4

Travel expenses (from old home to new home)
Number of household members in the move:
Travel expenses

Number of nights:

Accommodation expenses

Number of days:

Meal expenses

Add lines 5 to 7.

5

+
+
=

6
7

Ż

Method of travel:
Number of kilometres:

+

8

+

11

+

15

+

20

+
=

23

–
=

25

Temporary living expenses near new or old home (maximum 15 days)
Accommodation expenses
Meal expenses

Line 9 plus line 10

+
=

Cost of cancelling the lease for your old home
Incidental costs related to the move (specify):

12

(maximum $5,000)

+
+
=

13
14

Ż

Costs to maintain your old home when vacant
Add lines 12 to 14.

9
10

Ż

Number of nights:
Number of days:

Cost of selling old home
Selling price
Real estate commission
Advertising
Other selling costs (specify):
Add lines 16 to 19.

16

+
+

17

+
=

19

18

Ż

Legal or notarial fees

Cost of buying the new home
You can claim the expenses on lines 21 and 22 only if you or your spouse or common-law
partner sold your old home because of your move.
Purchase price
Legal or notarial fees

Line 21 plus line 22
Add lines 4, 8, 11, 15, 20 and 23.

21

+
=
Total moving expenses

Enter any reimbursement or allowance that is not included in your income and that you received
for moving expenses included in the amount on line 24.
Line 24 minus line 25 (if negative, enter "0")

T1-M E (25)

Net moving expenses

22

Ż

Taxes paid for the registration or transfer of title
(do not include GST/HST)

24

26

Page 5 of 6

--- Page 6 ---
Protected B when completed

Part 4 – Allowable moving expenses (continued)
Amount from line 26 of the previous page

27

Net eligible income
If you are an employee: Enter on line 28 the amounts on your T4 or T4A slips relating to the
new work location that you included on line 10100 or line 10400 of your return minus any
amounts relating to the new work location that you claimed on lines 20700, 21200, 22215, 22900,
23100, and 23200 of your return.
If you are self-employed: Enter on line 28 the net amounts earned at the new work location
that are included on lines 13500, 13700, 13900, 14100, and 14300 of your return minus any
amounts that you claimed on lines 21200 and 22200 of your return.
If you are a student: Enter on line 28 the amount of scholarships, bursaries, fellowships,
research grants, or certain prizes required to be included in your income for the year.

–

28

=

30

Allowable moving expenses
Enter whichever is less: amount from line 27 or line 28.
Enter this amount on line 21900 of your return.
Line 27 minus line 28
(if negative, enter "0")

29

Your unused moving expenses available
to carry forward to a future year

You can carry forward your unused moving expenses and deduct them from the same type of eligible income for the
years after you move.
Note
If you are filing electronically or filing a paper return, do not send any documents. Keep all of your supporting documents in
case the CRA asks to see them later. If you are using EFILE, show your documents to your EFILE service provider.
See the privacy notice on your return.

T1-M E (25)

Page 6 of 6
