--- Page 1 ---
T1-2025

Schedule 12

Multigenerational Home Renovation Tax Credit

Protected B
when completed

Complete this schedule if you are eligible to claim the multigenerational home renovation tax credit (MHRTC) on line 45355 of
your return. For more information, go to canada.ca/cra-mhrtc.
Attach a copy of this schedule to your paper return. Do not include your supporting documents, but keep them in case you are
asked to provide them later.

Who can claim this credit
You can claim this credit if you are an eligible individual who incurred qualifying expenditures on a qualifying renovation
to create a secondary unit within an eligible dwelling that allows a qualifying individual to reside with a qualifying relation.
An eligible individual is either of the following:
• an individual who ordinarily resides, or intends to ordinarily reside, in an eligible dwelling within 12 months of the end of the
renovation period, and is any of the following:
– a qualifying individual or their cohabiting spouse or common-law partner at any time in the renovation period tax year
– a qualifying relation of a qualifying individual
• an individual who is a qualifying relation of a qualifying individual, who owns the eligible dwelling or is the beneficiary of a
trust that owns the eligible dwelling
See the next page for definitions of the terms in bold above.
Notes: You must be a resident of Canada throughout the tax year to claim this credit.
Only one qualifying renovation can be claimed for a qualifying individual in their lifetime.
When more than one eligible individual makes an MHRTC claim for the same qualifying renovation, the total of all
amounts claimed for that renovation must not be more than $50,000. If the individuals cannot agree on what portion of
the amounts each can claim, the Minister of National Revenue may decide the portions.
The maximum of $50,000 for qualifying expenditures applies to the same qualifying renovation, even if the secondary
unit is expected to be the residence of more than one qualifying individual.
For more information, including examples of who can claim this credit, go to canada.ca/cra-mhrtc.

How much you can claim
An eligible individual can claim up to $50,000 in qualifying expenditures for a qualifying renovation ending in the tax year.
The MHRTC is 14.5% of whichever amount is less:
• $50,000
• your total qualifying expenditures
The maximum credit available for the MHRTC is $7,250.
Notes: Expenses that may be included in an MHRTC claim must be reduced by any expenses that can reasonably be
considered to have been reimbursed. This includes any form of assistance that you received, or are entitled to receive,
including any related rebates, such as those for GST/HST.
Expenses claimed for the medical expense tax credit or the home accessibility tax credit cannot be claimed for the MHRTC.

5000-S12 E (25)

(Ce formulaire est disponible en français.)

Page 1 of 3

--- Page 2 ---
Protected B when completed

Eligible dwelling
A housing unit in Canada that:
• both the qualifying individual and a qualifying relation of the individual ordinarily reside in, or intend to ordinarily reside in,
within 12 months of the end of the renovation period
• is owned (or jointly owned) by the qualifying individual or a qualifying relation of that individual (or a trust if the qualifying
individual or qualifying relation is a beneficiary of the trust) at any time during the renovation period tax year
The amount of land that can be considered part of the eligible dwelling is generally limited to half of a hectare (1.24 acres).

Qualifying expenditure
An expense that is:
• a reasonable expense that was directly attributable to a qualifying renovation of an eligible dwelling
• paid or incurred before the end of the renovation period by an eligible individual (or a trust that the eligible individual is
a beneficiary)
Note: The expense must have been paid or incurred after December 31, 2022.
For examples of qualifying expenditures that qualify and do not qualify, go to canada.ca/cra-mhrtc.

Qualifying individual
Someone who, before the end of the renovation period tax year, is one of the following:
• 65 years of age or older
• 18 years of age or older who is eligible for the disability tax credit

Qualifying relation
Someone who is :
• 18 years of age or older before the end of the renovation period tax year
• a parent, grandparent, child, grandchild, brother, sister, aunt, uncle, niece, or nephew of the qualifying individual or their
cohabiting spouse or common-law partner, at any time in the renovation period tax year

Qualifying renovation
A renovation or alteration of, or addition to, the qualifying individual's eligible dwelling that:
• is of an enduring nature and integral to the eligible dwelling
• allows the qualifying individual to reside in the dwelling with a qualifying relation of the qualifying individual by establishing
a secondary unit within the dwelling for occupancy by the qualifying individual or qualifying relation

Renovation period
A period of time that:
• begins at the time that the first qualifying expenditure is made or incurred for a qualifying renovation (for example, when
you apply for a building permit)
• ends at the time of the completion of the qualifying renovation (for example, when the qualifying renovation passes the
final inspection or proof of project completion is received)

Renovation period tax year
The tax year that includes the end of the renovation period of the qualifying renovation. For example, if the renovation period
ends on May 3, 2026, the renovation period tax year is 2026 even if the renovation began in 2025.

Secondary unit
A self-contained housing unit that:
• has a private entrance, kitchen, bathroom facilities, and sleeping area
• meets applicable local requirements to qualify as a secondary dwelling unit, if any
The secondary unit can be newly constructed or created from an existing living space.

5000-S12 E (25)

Page 2 of 3

--- Page 3 ---
Protected B when completed

Step 1: Calculating your qualifying expenditures
Complete this step to calculate the amount of MHRTC you can claim for the qualifying renovation.
If you paid qualifying expenditures for more than one qualifying renovation, complete this step for each qualifying renovation
using an additional sheet of paper.
Date on
sales slip
or contract

Amount paid
(including all
applicable
taxes)

Vendor or contractor
Description

GST/HST No.
(if applicable)

Name

+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
Total amount paid from all sales slips and contracts included
in the table above and any additional sheets of paper

Total qualifying expenditures

Any amount that can reasonably be considered to be reimbursed (including government
assistance received or receivable) included in the amount on line 1
Line 1 minus line 2

(maximum $50,000 per qualifying renovation)

Maximum amount per qualifying renovation
Amount of eligible expenses being claimed by other eligible individuals
Line 4 minus line 5
Enter whichever is less:
amount from line 3 or line 6.

50,000.00

–
=

=

1

–
=

2
3

4
5
6

Your qualifying expenditures for the qualifying renovation

7

Step 2: Calculating your MHRTC
Add the amounts from line 7 for each qualifying renovation.

Your total qualifying expenditures 45354

Applicable rate
Line 8 multiplied by the percentage from line 9
Enter this amount on line 45355 of your return.

×

8
14.5% 9

=

10

Multigenerational home renovation tax credit
(maximum $7,250 per qualifying renovation)

See the privacy notice on your return.

5000-S12 E (25)

Page 3 of 3
