--- Page 1 ---
T P -1. D. D-V (2025-12) 1 of 2
T

SCHEDULE

D

Solidarity Tax Credit
Before completing this schedule, make sure you read the information on page 2, including the definitions of the terms in blue.
IMPORTANT
• If, on December 31, 2025, you had a spouse who lived with you, only one of you can complete Schedule D. If your spouse
did not live with you, you must each complete a separate Schedule D.
• Complete this schedule based on your situation on December 31, 2025.
• In calculating the amount of your tax credit, we will take into account the number of children under 18 for whom you or your
spouse received the Family Allowance (information we obtain from Retraite Québec).

Information about you

A

Year

2025
Date of birth

Last name

Y

1

Y

Y

Y

M

M

D

D

6
First name

Social insurance number

2

11

Did you live alone in a dwelling throughout 2025?
(You are considered to have lived alone if everyone you lived with was under 18.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

12

Yes

No

Was the address of your principal residence on December 31, 2025, the same as the address on page 1
of your income tax return? (Your principal residence is where you ordinarily lived.) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

13

Yes

No

If it was different, enter it below.
Apartment

Street number

Street name

14
City, town or municipality

Province

15

Postal code
16

If, on December 31, 2025, you were a tenant or subtenant of your place of residence, complete lines 32 and 33.
If you were the owner, complete lines 35 and 36 (if your residence was located in a territory where municipal tax bills are not issued, complete lines 32 and 33).
If none of these situations apply, go to Part B.

Tenant or subtenant

Dwelling number (box A of the RL-31 slip issued in your name)

–

32

Number from box B of the RL-31 slip issued in your name

–

33

(If you did not receive an RL-31 slip, see the text under “Important” on page 2.)

Owner

Roll number or cadastral designation (the “numéro matricule” or “désignation cadastrale”) shown on your municipal tax bill Number of owners living in your dwelling
35

B

36

Information about your spouse (Complete this part only if, on December 31, 2025, you had a spouse.)

On December 31, 2025, were you living with your spouse?

40

Yes

No

If, on December 31, 2025, your spouse was a tenant or subtenant of your place of residence, complete lines 44 and 46.
If they were the owner, complete lines 50 and 52 (if your residence was located in a territory where municipal tax bills are not issued, complete lines 44 and 46).
If none of these situations apply, do not complete any of lines 44 through 52.

Spouse who is a tenant or subtenant
Dwelling number (box A of the RL-31 slip issued in your spouse’s name)
44

–

Number from box B of the RL-31 slip issued in your spouse’s name

–

46

(If your spouse did not receive an RL-31 slip, see the text under “Important” on page 2.)

Spouse who is the owner
Roll number or cadastral designation (the “numéro matricule” or “désignation cadastrale”) shown on the municipal tax bill

Number of owners living in your dwelling

50

52

Enclose this schedule with your return.
If you want to keep a copy for your records, see the guide.

Y5D1 ZZ 89536849

Prescribed form

D

--- Page 2 ---
T

T P -1. D. D-V (2025-12) 2 of 2

Information
Eligibility requirements
You may be eligible for the solidarity tax credit if you met all of the following
requirements on December 31, 2025:
• You were 18 or older or, if you were younger than 18, you:
– had a spouse;
– were the mother or father of a child who lived with you; or
– were recognized as an emancipated minor by a competent authority
(such as a court).
• You were resident in Québec.
• You or your spouse (see the definition opposite) was:
– a Canadian citizen;
– a permanent resident or a protected person, within the meaning
of the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act; or
– a temporary resident or the holder of a temporary resident permit, within
the meaning of the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act, who had been
living in Canada for the last 18 months.
However, you are not eligible for the solidarity tax credit in the following cases:
• You were confined to a prison or similar institution on December 31, 2025,
and, in 2025, you were confined for one or more periods totalling
more than 183 days.
• Retraite Québec made a Family Allowance payment with regard to you for
the month of December 2025 (unless you turned 18 during that month).
• You and your spouse (if applicable) were refugee protection claimants
on December 31, 2025.

Definitions
Dwelling

A house, an apartment or a similar place of residence in which a person ordinarily
eats and sleeps, and that is equipped with kitchen and bathroom facilities.
NOTE
A room in a hotel establishment or rooming house is not a dwelling.

Eligible dwelling

A dwelling (for example, a house, a room or an apartment in a duplex or
condominium building) located in Québec in which an individual ordinarily
lives and that is the individual’s principal residence.

Owner

A person who holds a title deed in the land register.

Spouse

A person from whom you have not been living separate and apart for 90 days
or more because of the breakdown of your relationship, and:
• to whom you are married;
• with whom you are living in a civil union; or
• who is your de facto spouse.
A de facto spouse is a person who:
• is living in a conjugal relationship with you and is the biological or adoptive
parent (legally or in fact) of a child of whom you are also the parent; or
• has been living in a conjugal relationship with you for at least 12 consecutive
months (if you were separated for fewer than 90 days, the 12-month period
is considered not to have been interrupted).

Tenant or subtenant

A person who is leasing or subleasing a dwelling and is therefore responsible
for paying the rent.
IMPORTANT – If you did not receive an RL-31 slip
Tenants and subtenants of an eligible dwelling
The landlord of any building that includes an eligible dwelling must issue
an RL-31 slip to every person who was a tenant or subtenant of the dwelling
on December 31, 2025. If you or your spouse has not received an RL-31 slip
by mid-March 2026, contact your landlord. If you are still unable to get
the slip, contact us.
Owners of a residence located in a territory where municipal tax bills
are not issued
In territories where no municipal tax bills are issued, the body that has
jurisdiction over the territory must issue an RL-31 slip to every person who,
on December 31, 2025, was the owner of a residence in that territory. If you
or your spouse has not received an RL-31 slip by mid-March 2026, contact
the body in question. If you are still unable to get the slip, contact us.

The following are not eligible dwellings:
• a dwelling in low-rental housing within the meaning of the Civil Code
of Québec, such as an HLM or a dwelling for which the Société d’habitation
du Québec agrees to pay an amount towards the rent;
• a dwelling in a facility where a public institution or private institution under
agreement (publicly funded) operates a hospital centre, a residential
and long-term care centre (CHSLD) or a rehabilitation centre;
• a dwelling located in a hospital centre or reception centre within the
meaning of the Act respecting health services and social services for Cree
Native persons;
• a dwelling for which an amount is paid toward rent under a program
governed by the National Housing Act (for example, a dwelling located
in a housing cooperative);
• a dwelling located in a building or residential facility where the services
of an intermediate resource or a family-type resource are offered;
• a room located in the principal residence of the landlord where fewer than
three rooms are rented or offered for rent, unless the room has either
a separate entrance from the outside or sanitary facilities separate from
those used by the landlord;
• a room located in a hotel establishment or in a rooming house that
is leased or subleased for a period of fewer than 60 consecutive days.

GUID ZZ 71857368

D
